AA
Not registered.  No record of this person under this number.
Please re-check the patient's Health Services Card.

AB
Patient does not appear to be covered for this date of service.
If you can resubmit with the patient's current address, we will
determine if the patient was covered.

AC
Registered as opposite sex.  Please check the Health Services Card.

AD
Incorrect Health Services Number.  Use the number shown on this
payment list for future claims.

AE
Incorrect date of birth.  Please use the date of birth
shown on the Health Services Card.

AF
Please review this claim, the Health Services Number is inconsistent
with the name, sex or birth date on the Health Services Card.

AG
This claim is for a newborn (child less than one year old).
The newborn may not be registered yet/or the patient identification
data is incorrect. Please ensure the beneficiary data is correct or
that the parents/guardians contact:

	Health Registration
	3475 Albert Street
	Regina SK  S4S 6X6

in order to have the newborn registered.

AH
Please review this claim.  Our records indicate that the beneficiary
registered under this number died prior to the date of service.

AJ
The services involving emergency room coverage can not be paid as:

1.  The physician is not eligible to bill these codes;
2.  Another physician has been paid for the same time period in this community;
3.  The incorrect dummy HSN has been used for this community;
4.  Another ICD code must be used for regular services provided to a beneficiary;
5.  An incorrect service code, day of the week or am9unt has been used; or
6.  Only itinerant physicians are eligible to bill 713A.

AK
Please check the Health Services Card.
The beneficiary has been issued a different Health Services Number.

AL
This claim was received at Saskatchewan Health
prior to the date of service indicated on the claim.

AN
The coverage for this patient has been terminated in accordance
with his/her Canadian Immigration Authorization.  All attempts
to contact the patient have been unsuccessful.

The date of service on the claim is after the termination date on the
Health Services Card.  In order to have the Health Services coverage
updated, he/she should immediately contact:

	Health Registration
	3475 Albert Street
	Regina SK  54S 6X6

AP
The 9-digit Health Services Number is incorrectly recorded.
Please recheck your files and/or the patient's Health Services Card.

AQ
Not an eligible provider of service.  Services provided by other than
physicians, chiropractors, optometrists and dentists are not insured.

AR
Patient not registered for coverage on this date of service.
Please check the effective and expiry dates on the Health Services Card.

If the patient is a resident, he/she should immediately contact

	Health Registration
	3475 Albert Street
	Regina SK  54S 6X6

to have coverage updated.  If resubmitting, please indicate the current address.

AS
Your account had to be split for processing.
Payment for the listed services was approved based on
Saskatchewan Health's Payment Schedule.

AT
Diagnosis and Payment Schedule item are not compatible.

AU
To assist our Medical Consultants in the assessment of this service
please resubmit a claim form with a copy of the operative report or
a descriptive letter.

AV
This service is not insured.

AW
This Payment Schedule item applies only to:  a particular type of specialty,
place of service, etc.  (Refer to Payment Schedule)

AX
A Medical Consultant has reviewed this claim.  The circumstances described
are not considered sufficient to warrant additional payment.

AY
Assessed by a Medical Consultant.

AZ
Please refer to correspondence.

BA
Duplicate (same physician) payment has been made for a
similar service provided on the same day.

BB
Possible duplication of a payment for a similar service.   If no
duplication, please resubmit with a note in the "Remarks" area or
on the back of the claim or a comment in the automated claim submission.

BC
Duplicate (same clinic) payment has been made to another
physician in your clinic for a similar service on the same day.

BD
The beneficiary has been paid, based on the claim previously submitted.

BE
Age of patient.  Payment based on the age of the patient.

BF
Adjustment based on correspondence - Re:  "Audit of Services".

BG
Billed less than Listed Payment.  Appropriate payment for the
date of service has been approved

BH
Payment Approved at:

(1)	Listed rate for a specialist in your specialty.
(2)	Equivalent service code and fee listed in your specialty.

Re:  Definition of "Specialist".

BI
Paid at the unreferred rate because:

(a)	The referring physician has not practised in Saskatchewan
	during the past two years, OR

(b)	No referring physician's name indicated; if patient was referred
	please re-submit for the difference between referred and unreferred
	rate giving name and initials of referring physician, OR

(c)	We were not able to identify the name of the referring physician;
	please re-submit indicating the name, initials and practice locale, OR

(d)	We could find no record of the 11referring doctor" being
	licensed to practice.

BJ
Payment for this item can only be made if the patient was referred,
and if the name of the referring physician is indicated.
Please re-submit:

(a)  if referred, with the name of the referring physician,
(b)  if unreferred, using appropriate code and fee.

BK
Payment based on the service code and related payment
approved by Saskatchewan Health.

BL
This service is being discussed with the S.M.A.  The payment may be adjusted.

BM
Unilateral/Bilateral procedure.
Please re-submit indicating left/right or bilateral.

BN
You were asked for additional information to assess this claim,
no reply received.  Without this information, the claim can not be processed.

BO
The approved service code and payment is
based on your description of the service.

BP
Payment adjustment based on:

(a)  your re-submission;
(b)  our review of assessment; or
(c)  information received on Review of Claim Assessment form.


BQ
The service code and/or amount submitted are incorrect.
Please review and re-submit.

BR
Invalid service code.  Please review.

BS
The service code submitted is not correct for:

(a)  the condition described; or
(b)  the service(s) provided.

BT
Approved at the maximum amount consistent with
your description of the service provided.

BU

Payment not approved for:

1.	Surcharge alone;
2.	Surcharge with:
	(a)	another surcharge code:  615A, 721A, 815A, 816A, 817A, 818A,
		819A1 836A, 837A, 838A, 839A, 915A, 31H, 32H or 33H;
	(b)	service codes 620A, 624A, 130D, 131D, 35H to 38H, 93H, 665H to 667H;
	(c)	hospital care codes, including newborn care and attendant care (50B);
	(d)	a pre-arranged service;
	(e)	phone calls (760A and 761A).
	
3.	Surcharge for an extra patient not paid for the day and time indicated.

4.	Premium service codes should not be submitted based on the eligible
	service codes being paid.  They are automatically generated by
	Saskatchewan Health.

5.	Surcharges for emergency room physicians providing emergency room shifts
	or first on-call services.

6.	Hospital care premium 700A for non statutory holidays.

BV
Payment based on the appropriate service code and
amount listed for the date provided.

BW
Billed more than Listed Payment.  Appropriate payment
for the date of service has been approved.

BX
"Fee-for-service" - This service is approved on the basis of
individual visit and/or procedure items.  Please re-submit,
for individual dates, the appropriate service code(s) and amount(s).

BY
Payment on a time basis.  Please designate the treatment time and resubmit.

BZ
Payment is based on the amount payable to a Saskatchewan physician in the
same specialty providing the same or similar service.

CA
Medical examinations, services and provision of certificates
or reports requested by a third party, e.g. for:

	Attendance at camps
	Autopsies
	Third party counselling
	Employment
	Insurance
	Seat belt exemption
	Employment Insurance Program
	Judicial purposes (other than adoption or commitment)
	Motor vehicle or other license
	Participation in sports
	Passport or visa
	University or private school entrance

CB
Materials & other services, e.g.:

	Acupuncture
	Advice by telephone or letter (most)
	Ambulance services
	Anaesthetic materials
	Appliances (Prostheses)
	Casts
	Committee or Advisory service
	Contractual service for a government department or agency
	Dentistry
	Dressing or Medication
	Drugs
	Eyeglasses or Contact Lenses
	Facility fee
	Medical testimony in court
	Medical - legal opinion and report
	Secretarial or reporting fee(s)
	Services of a special duty nurse
	Surgical supplies
	Travel by a physician
	Tray service (see code 897L for description)

CC
Immunization services when available under Saskatchewan Health programs.
If this patient was referred by Saskatchewan Health personnel or there
are medical factors which prohibited immunization under Saskatchewan Health
programs, please resubmit with an explanation.

CD
Hospital Services:

(a)	services provided by:
	(i)	hospital personnel; or
	(ii)	any out-patient facility having a contract with the
		District Support Branch, Saskatchewan Health,
(b)	the technical component of a diagnostic procedure performed in a
	hospital utilizing hospital equipment, e.g. ECG, EEC.

CE
A service by a physician who is not registered with or licensed by the
appropriate agency of the Province, State or Country on the date the service
was provided.

CF
This service code is not valid for this date, because it is either:

(a)  prior to implementation; or
(b)  after deletion from the Payment Schedule.

CG
The College of Physicians and Surgeons has declared it unethical for a
physician to bill for services provided to him(her)self, spouse or children.

CH
These services appear to be the responsibility of the Department of
Veteran's Affairs (D.V.A.).  Please send the appropriate form to D.V.A.:

	Department of Veteran's Affairs
	Treatment Benefit Unit
	Box 6050
	Winnipeg MB  R3C 4G5

If they do not accept responsibility, D.V.A. will
forward the claim to Saskatchewan Health.


CI
The service provided can not be paid for an out-of-province beneficiary;
it is on the excluded list of services for reciprocal billing purposes
or it can not be billed under the reciprocal billing process.

CJ
Our records indicate this patient was not in the hospital on this date.
If this information is incorrect, please resubmit with a copy of the
hospital discharge record.

CK
This service is not insured.  Our records indicate that the beneficiary
died more than 30 days prior to date of service.

CL
In-hospital services for which payment may be made by the District 
Support Branch.  If additional information is required, send claim to:

	Benefits Section, District Support Branch
	Saskatchewan Health
	3475 Albert Street
	Regina  SK S4S 6X6

CM
Claims received more than six months after the date of service.
If factors beyond your control prevented submission within six months,
kindly provide an explanation.  A re-submitted claim must be returned
within one month (see pg. 117).  Resubmitted claims must include original
claim or batch number and the date of original submission.

Re:  "lnformation For Physicians".

CN
Claim received more than twelve months after the date of service.

Re:   "Information For Physicians".

CO
Date of Service is prior to:

(a)	the physician's registration date; OR
(b)	the effective specialty date as indicated by the Saskatchewan
	College of Physicians and Surgeons.

CP
Our latest information from the College of Physicians and Surgeons
indicates that you are registered in Saskatchewan as a General Practitioner.

CS
Department of Veterans' Affairs have advised Saskatchewan Health
that they have paid you for this service.

CT
Workers' Compensation Board have advised Saskatchewan Health that they
have paid you or another physician in your clinic for the same service,
a similar related service or a service which includes post-operative care.

CU
Payment is only approved for those physicians listed by the provincial
COLLEGE or STATE BOARD in their practice locale as having qualified to
receive payment for this service.

CW
These services appear to be the responsibility of the Workers'
Compensation Board.  Please submit a claim to the W.C.B. at

	Workers' Compensation Board
	Suite 200 - 1881 Scarth Street
	Regina SK  54P 4L1

If they do not accept responsibility, W.C.B. will forward the claim to you.
If the claim has not yet been paid, please submit an automated to MSP with a
comment "Not WCB".

CY
This service not usually billed by a physician in your specialty.

CZ
Service Code of 20A should be on the same claim number (form) as a visit code,
laboratory service, 131A, 204A, 205A or 206A.  Also, a diagnostic code of Z90
should only be used in conjunction with a claim containing a service of 20A.

DA
Not approved for payment.  Only one visit type service
is approved during a single patient contact.

DB
Please clarify the second visit on the same day by the same
physician or the same specialty and clinic.

DC
Multiple diagnosis during a single patient contact.  Another agency appears
to be responsible for the assessment and/or treatment of one condition.
Payment of services for another condition is not approved.

DD
Please verify date(s) of service and resubmit.

DE
Included in the payment for another service provided
during the same Physician/Patient contact.

DF
Hospital care is not payable on the day of admission when
a physician also bills a visit or consultation service.

DG
Please resubmit under the Health Services Number of the patient who was treated.

DH
Please identify the person(s) interviewed, e.g.,
wife, son, employer, teacher, etc.

DI
A return visit on the same day by either the same physician or another
physician in the same specialty and clinic for the purposes of reviewing
or taking of x-rays is regarded as an inclusion in the first visit service.

DJ
Maximum approved.  This service with prior services would exceed the maximum.

DK
The code approved is based on the patient's designated level of care.

DL
Surcharge 721A applies to a life-threatening situation and admission
to hospital.  The information given on your claim does not indicate
the necessity for an immediate "stat" response.

Your surcharge may have been adjusted to another surcharge based on the
information provided.  If resubmitting, please provide further information
or submit under an alternate surcharge.

DM
Payment is made for this visit when provided in the physician1s office
only when the claim confirms a "Visit - Specially Called" made after
regular office hours or on a holiday.  Please resubmit with explanation.


DN
Surcharge 721A does not apply where the patient is already hospitalized.

DO
Our record and your service description indicate that this service
appears to be inconsistent with the definition of a special call.

DP
Service codes 918A, 920A, 922A, 923A, 33C and 35H to 38H.
Include all services provided during continuous attendance.
Payment based on your description of services.

DQ
Additional patient.  Payment has been previously approved for a special
call made to another patient at the same location on the same date.

If you were "specially called" a second time and returned to provide
this specific service please re-submit for the difference in payment
under the initial service code with a notation confirming the return visit.

Re:     "Payment Schedule Item".

DR
Service codes 918A, 920A, 922A, 923A, and 35H to 38H relate to the time
actually spent with the patient, and all services provided during this
continuous personal attendance.  Please indicate:

(a)  time spent with the patient,
(b)  clinical factors necessitating this personal attendance,
(c)  services provided during that time.

DS
Service codes 918A, 922A and 923A are not paid when other service codes apply.

DT
Continued hospital care.  Payment is based on continuous hospital care.

Re:	1.  Payment Schedule item.
	2.  Assessment Rules - "Hospital Care", item b.

DU
Our records indicate that the beneficiary was a hospital in-patient on
the date of service.  Payment rejected or adjusted to the appropriate
item for hospital care.

DV
920A applies to the actual time spent in transit with the patient.
Please resubmit indicating:

(a)  Location from which patient was transferred,
(b)  Location of hospital to which patient was transferred,
(c)  Times of departure and arrival.

DW
Multiple visits, hospital.  The payment for daily in-hospital or total newborn
care is a maximum regardless of the number of visits made by the physician:

Re:	1.  Payment Schedule Item
	2.  Assessment Rules - "Hospital Care", item a.

DX
Concurrent care.  Payment has been made to another physician for daily
hospital care for this period.  Payment to a second physician is only
approved when a satisfactory explanation is provided that care by two
physicians was required.

DY
Special Call or emergency visit (in-hospital care) will not be approved
for a hospital in-patient without additional information.  Please re-submit 
with an indication of the factors requiring the visit.

Re:  "Assessment Rules - Hospital Care", item d.

DZ
"READMISSION" must be indicated in order to be eligible for the higher
rate of payment when a patient is readmitted within 14 days.

Re:  "Assessment Rules - Hospital Care", item b.

EA
Consultation converted to a repeat.

Re:  "Assessment Rules - Consultations", items f(i) and (vi).

EB
Our records indicate that the "referring physician" ceased to practise
in the province prior to the consultation. Please re-submit with a copy
of the consultation report OR adjust to the appropriate visit.

EC
Consultation includes all visits necessary to
prepare report for the referring doctor.

ED
A Medical Consultant has reviewed this claim.  The diagnosis does not
seem to indicate the necessity for a Consultation.  If resubmitting,
please provide a copy of the consultation report.

EL
Consultation converted to a partial/follow-up assessment.

Re:  "Assessment Rules - Consultations", item f(ii)

EM
Complete/initial assessment converted to a partial/follow-up assessment.

Re:  "Assessment Rules - Consultations", items f(iii), (v) and (vii).

EN
Consultation converted to a complete/initial assessment.

Re:  "Assessment Rules - Consultations" - items f(iv) and g.

EO
An initial in-hospital consultation on the same day or within 42 days
after a complete/initial assessment is converted to a complete/initial.

EP
An initial in-hospital consultation on the same day or within 90 days
after another consultation is converted to a complete/initial assessment.

FA
Paid at the greater of the procedure or visit/consultation.

Re:	(1)  "Assessment Rules - Multiple Services", Rule 1
	(2)  Payment Schedule Listing.

FB
Minor procedures for which no payment is listed are considered
an inclusion in the visit or consultation.

FC
Second procedure paid at 75% when performed bilaterally.

Re:  "Assessment Rules - Multiple Services", Rule 5.

FD
Listed as a bilateral procedure.

Re:  Payment Schedule.

FE
The greater payment approved.

(1)  Procedure not approved in addition to another service.
(2)  Included in the payment for the procedure.

Re:	(1)  "Assessment Rules - Multiple Services", Rule 1.
	(2)  Payment Schedule listing.

FF
Maximum approved.  This service with prior services by the same physician
or clinic would exceed the maximum.

Re:  Payment Schedule listing.

FG
Multiple interpretations billed on the same date.  Please resubmit
indicating if these interpretations are for tracings done on different
days, the time and reason for multiple interpretations.

FH
Technical component not approved.  Only the interpretation component can be
approved when this service is provided in any part of a hospital.  If not
provided to either an in-patient or an out-patient, please re-submit
designating the locale.

FI
Considered an inclusion within the payment for a related procedure.

FK
Echocardiography service code and payment is adjusted or rejected
based on prior services by the same physician or clinic in accordance
with annual maximums.  Re: Page A.5.

FL
Payment restricted to a specialist in Paediatrics or Internal Medicine.

Re:	(1)  Payment Schedule listing
	(2)  Definition of Specialist.

FP
A "0" or "10" day Procedure billed in addition to a visit (including
hospital care) or consultation.  Approved at the greater of:

(1)  the procedure alone; OR
(2)  the visit plus the procedure at 75%.

Re:  "Assessment Rules - Multiple Services", Rule 2.

FS
Approved as repeat procedure.  Previously paid to you or to another
physician in the same specialty and clinic.

FT
Code 34F, PUVA therapy, is paid once only on alternate days.
Repeat billings are converted to 15OA.

EW
A manipulation not performed under anaesthetic or
alternative agent is included in visit payment.

FY
A code and a fee have been approved by Saskatchewan Health that are not yet
available for billing.  A temporary code has been used to process your claim.

FZ
The calculated premium is based on the submitted service code and is paid
as the premium approved service code.  The amount has been calculated using
the appropriate premium percentage multiplied by the approved amount of the
eligible service code.

GD
Payment for report is not approved 3 days preceding,
the day of and 3 days after a consultation.

GE
Payment for report is not approved during the usual post-operative period.

GR
Service rejected - ineligible surgeon.  Payment for cancer surgery can only
be made by Saskatchewan Health to a surgeon given entitlement by the
Saskatchewan Cancer Foundation.  To obtain further information, write to:

	Executive Director
	Saskatchewan Cancer Foundation,
	400 - 2631 28th Avenue
	Regina SK  S4S 6X3

GY
Assessed by a Medical Consultant based on Saskatchewan Cancer Foundation's advice.

HA
Based on the total payment (calculated at the specialist rate, regardless 
of "repeat surgery rule" or surgery by a general practitioner) for the 
procedure(s) performed.

Re:  Section  "H", item 3.

HB
Service code for Additional Time converted to the appropriate
Service Code for the Base Time approved.

HC
Another service provided during a period of intensive care has been
paid in lieu of that period of 35H - 38H series.

HD
"Standby" - Please indicate:

(a)	the physician who requested the "standby",
(b)	the commencement and completion times of both the "standby"
	and the anaesthesia, and
(c)	the services provided during the "standby".

Re:  Section "H", item 7.

HE
Included in payment of anaesthesia.  E.g., Consultation is not approved
to the physician who also provided Anaesthesia same day.

Re:  Section "H", item 1 and 2.

HG
Paid as a second anaesthetist.

Re:  Section "H", item 6.

HH
This service, with previous 35H to 38H services, exceeds the listed maximums
(see Payment Schedule).  Adjusted to the approved service code and fee.

HJ
Invasive Monitoring Services approved only to the Primary Anaesthetist.

Re:  Section "H", item 2 (b).

HL
Payment for general anaesthesia for dental procedures outside a hospital
restricted to specialists in anaesthesia.

Re:	(1) Definitions - "Specialist".
	(2) Information for Physicians - "Services Not Insured by Saskatchewan Health".

HN
Greater payment approved - nerve block and other service.

Re:  Nerve Blocks, page H.6.

HO
Greater payment approved - Pain Clinic and other service.

HP
Epidural anaesthesia provided during labour and delivery should
be billed as service codes 664H, 665H, 666H, 667H.

HQ
Approved only for services by a specialist in a designated Pain Clinic.

HZ
Special service codes 300H-302H - payment for this date of service
has been made to another physician.

JA
Payment for assistance is not approved for this procedure unless special
circumstances satisfactory to Saskatchewan Health are described.
Please provide details.

Re:  Section "J", item 2.

JC
Payment based on related Anaesthetic time - additional time has been rejected.

JD
Assistant standby not paid if assistant fees are billed.

JE
Payment for more than one surgical assistant is not approved for this type
of surgical procedure unless special circumstances satisfactory to
Saskatchewan Health are described.

Re:  Section "J", item 3.

JM
Control of post-op hemorrhage in the first 24 hours is included
in the composite fee for the surgical procedure.

JN
Considered an inclusion within the payment for a more major procedure.

JO
Paid in accordance with rules for two or more procedures performed on the
same day by the same physician, another physician in same specialty and
clinic or part of the surgical team.

Re:  "Assessment Rules - Multiple Services", Rule 8.

JP
This claim is being rejected because this service
code has been billed and paid to another physician.

JQ
Paid at the maximum listed for these multiple procedures.

Re:  Payment Schedule item.

JR
Paid at 1/3 of listed payment when a surgical procedure is performed by
two specialists and payment is not defined for the second surgeon.

JT
The bilateral procedure payment is approved when unilateral
procedures are staged during the same hospital admission.

Re:  "Assessment Rules - Multiple Services", Rule 9.

JW
Paid as a repeat or related procedure within the
designated post-operative period.

Re:  "Assessment Rules   Multiple Services", Rule 10.

KA
An inclusion in the payment for the procedure when provided by the
same physician, another physician in same specialty and clinic or
part of the surgical team.

Re:	(1)	"Assessment Rules - Procedures", items b and d.
		"Assessment Rules -Multiple Services", Rule 8 (a)
	(2)	Various Payment Schedule items.

KB
The anaesthetic is an inclusion in the surgical fee
when provided by the same physician.

KH
Only the greater payment is approved when a physician acts in
more than one capacity, e.g. anaesthetist, assistant or surgeon.

KM
Diagnostic procedure on the day of a "42" Day procedure approved at 75%.

Re:  "Assessment Rules - Multiple Services", Rule 6.

KN
Related diagnostic procedure during the designated post-operative
period of a "10" or "42" Day procedure approved at 75%.

Re:  "Assessment Rules - Multiple Services", Rule 7.

KO
The two days of pre-operative care in hospital are included
in the payment for a "10" or "42" Day procedure.

Re:  "Assessment Rules - Procedures", item e.

KP
Visit (including hospital care) or consultation, same day, is included
in the payment for a "42" Day procedure when provided by the same physician,
another physician in same specialty and clinic or part of the surgical team.

Re:  "Assessment Rules - Multiple Services", Rule 3.

KQ
Related visit (including hospital care) or consultation during the designated
post-operative period is included in the payment for a "10" or "42" Day
procedure when provided by same physician, a general practitioner in the
same clinic or a specialist in the same specialty and clinic.

Re:  "Assessment Rules - Multiple Services", Rule 4.

KR
Only one special call is approved per major
surgical procedure, fracture or dislocation.

KS
Codes 232L and 142P are only payable for Malignancy.
Code 142P is only payable in addition to 123P or 134P.

LA
348L included in payment for 355L.

LB
The 898L is for removal of sutures from lacerations or major surgical
incisions (i.e. 42 day procedures) by another physician not in the same clinic.

LC
890L-895L:  Please indicate:

(1)	the total length of the lacerations by site.
(2)	the length of the facial component of any laceration extending
	from facial to non-facial area.

Re:  Payment Schedule items.

LD
Approved only with specified services as listed in the schedule under
payment item 897L where provided in a physician's office.

LE
Please identify the site and extent of burn area.

Re:  Payment Schedule item.

LF
Not approved to same physician or clinic.

Re:  Payment Schedule item.

MB
Included in the "composite" paid for the
initial immobilization or closed reduction.

Re:	(1)  "Fractures", items 1, 2 and 3
	(2)  "Dislocations", items 1 and 2.

MC
Maximum for undisplaced fracture.

Re:  "Fractures", item 2.

MD
Paid as closed reduction plus 50%.

Re:  "Fractures", item 3(c) (ii).

ME
When an "open reduction" or a "closed reduction with external fixation"
is performed by any physician within the post-operative period of a previous
attempted reduction, the payment for the prior fracture is reduced by 50%.

Re:	(1) "Fractures", item 3(c)
	(2) "Dislocations", item 2.

MF
Payment for the previously attempted reduction is reduced by 50%.

Re:	(1)  "Fractures", item 3(b)
	(2)  "Dislocations", item 2.

MH
Reduction of a dislocated hip within the post-operative
period is included in the arthroplasty payment.

MI
"Fracture" and "dislocation" - same date - same site - greater payment approved.

MJ
Paid in accordance with rules for multiple fractures.

Re:  "Fractures", item 3(d).

MK
631M: This item applies to "rupture" or "tearing" of a muscle during use.
It does not apply to cuts or lacerations of a muscle.  Please resubmit 
with alternate service code.

ML
133M:  the source of the autogenous bone from a
different site has not been identified.

MM
32M or 33M:  NOT paid in addition to, or part of, another
orthopaedic procedure, performed through the same or extended
incision by any physician.

MP
Synovectomy not paid in addition to major joint surgery.

NB
Care provided for cosmetic purposes is not an insured service.

Re: Information for Physicians - Services Not Insured by Saskatchewan Health.

NC
382N & 383N:  Restricted to a "plastic surgeon" treating a referred patient;
890L approved.

ND
287N for reconstruction of nose not paid in addition to rhinoplasty.

PB
Included in the payment for delivery and post-natal care in hospital.

Re:  "Obstetrics", item 4(a-g).

PD
Complicated Genital Tract Injury - Post Delivery.
Please re-submit your claim, identifying the extent
of the surgery, structures and site(s) involved.

PG
42P approved.  Patient was turned over to consultant who provided the delivery.

Re:  "Obstetrics", item 2.

PH
40P or 41P is only approved for the delivery
of a viable foetus of 20 weeks or more.

PI
Only one special call surcharge is approved per confinement (case).

PL
Payment approved as subsequent pre-natal or post-natal care.

PR
Payment for ectopic gestation includes treatment
of shock or continuous care by the surgeon.

PS
Two complications of pregnancy may be claimed per
patient per pregnancy.  Report required for more than two.

PU
Continuous personal attendance is not paid with a delivery.

SA
6S: A previous examination was provided to this beneficiary by yourself
or another physician within the designated time span:
	Age 18 - 64: minimum time - 24 months;
	All other ages: minimum time - 12 months.

If resubmitting, please indicate:

(a)	Previous and current complete refractive errors.
(b)	Medical factors necessitating current refraction.

Re:  "Ophthalmology", item A(c)

SB
170S-171S:  Included in payment for retinal detachment.

Re:  Section "S", item B.

SC
12S:  Approved only once within a period of 12
consecutive months for the same physician or clinic.

SF
The factors indicated have been reviewed and are not considered sufficient
to warrant payment of a second refraction within the designated time span.

SI
Code 138S is converted to 189S - unless it is specified
as being done by an open surgical technique.

SS
Coverage for routine examination of the eyes (6S) is limited to those
under the age of 18, Social Assistance recipients nominated to receive
Supplementary Health benefits, recipients of Family Income Plan benefits
and seniors receiving the Saskatchewan Income Plan supplement.  According
to our information, the patient is not eligible for coverage.

VB
Procedure not insured in office practice.

Re:  Lists 1 and 2.

VC

204-206A:  Not approved in addition to any other service.

Re:  Payment Schedule item.

VD
204-206A & 770-772V:  Payment includes referral of
multiple specimens of the same type.

Re:  Payment Schedule item.

VE
The appropriate Biochemistry Panel Code is approved
based on the total number of tests per patient.

VH
Exceeds maximum number of units paid without an explanation.

VJ
No explanation provided for manual performance.

Re:  Laboratory Medicine - List 3, item 3.

VI
Multiples of codes 32V or 441V plus urinalysis (60V) are being paid at
the appropriate number of units for the composite code - 33V, 442V.

VL
According to information received from Laboratory Licensing, you have
not been licensed to perform this test.  Please review your licence.
If any disagreements, please write or call:

	Laboratory Licensing
	Saskatchewan Health
	3475 Albert Street
	Regina SK  S4S 6X6

	Phone: 787-5791

VM
The code and payment approved is the maximum for the series.

VN
Included in the "composite" paid for the related laboratory procedure.

VP
Paid at the appropriate code and fee for automated procedures.

XA
Radiology is not insured when:

(a)	provided in:
	(i)	a hospital, or
	(ii)	any facility funded by the District Support Branch,
		Saskatchewan Health.
(b)	performed by other than a radiologist.

Re:  Section "X" - items 1 and 2.

XB
Interpretation component is "Column B".

Re:  Payment Schedule item.

XG
Administration of the media is included in the payment for the procedure.

Re:  Section "X", item 3.

XJ
Considered an inclusion within the payment for a similar procedure
on the same day.  If re-submitting please clarify.

YA
Patient's Name.  Please clarify the full name.

YB
Registration.  Indicate the complete 9-digit Health Services Number.

YC
Date of Birth.  Indicate the month and year of
birth recorded on the Health Services Card.

YD
Family Head.  Please indicate the full name and address.

YE
The province code is blank, invalid or not legible.  Please provide
the necessary information in the "REMARKS" area.

YF
The signature block on this claim is completed differently than what you
previously indicated to Saskatchewan Health.

The acceptable methods are:

1.	Personal signature.
2.	Impress a rubber stamp facsimile of the practitioner's signature
3.	Impress a rubber stamp of the practitioner's name in capital letters.
4.	Hand print the practitioner's name in capital letters.
5.	Delegate a member of your staff to personally sign on the practitioner's
	behalf.

Prior to resubmission, please complete the signature block by either:

(a)	your previously designated method of signing; or
(b)	personal signature

If you wish to change your previously designated method of signing claims,
you must first advise Saskatchewan Health in writing of the specific
acceptable method you intend to use in the future.

YG
The Out of Province registration number provided on your claim is not correct.
Please check your records and modify the number, if incorrect.  If the number
is correct according to your records, please indicate this on the claim.

YH
Additional information requested.  Please ensure all the
following have been provided:

(1)  Diagnosis
(2)  Site of lesion or injury
(3)  Cause and site of edema
(4)  Condition requiring the injection.

YI
Clarification.  Please clarify the item(s) circled on the claim
or recheck the entire claim.

YJ
We cannot interpret the diagnosis.  Please explain the term(s) used.

YK
Code and Fee.  Please indicate the service code
and amount charged for each service.

YL
Date of Service.  Please indicate the proper day, month and year.

YM
Hospital visits.  Please clarify the date of the first and last
visit and the total number of days billed.

YN
Please review this claim.  The payment schedule code and/or
diagnosis/diagnostic code is not consistent with the patient's age and/or sex.

YP
The clinic number is invalid for the submitted dates of service or the hospital
days span two clinics.  Please review the dates of service and clinic number.

YR
Please clarify the name, specialty and initials
of the physician who provided each service.

YS
We are unable to identify who referred the patient.  A referring doctor's
name either has not been supplied, or if a name is present on the claim,
he or she cannot be located in our listing of active Saskatchewan physicians.
If the patient was referred, please re-submit the claim with the full name
of the physician and the location of his or her practice.

YT
Please resubmit the claim indicating the hospital admission and discharge dates.

YU
Your claim has been returned because of the
omission of one or both of the following items:

(a)  designation of the operative procedure.
(b)  the total time when additional time is billed.

YV
Please indicate whether the dental anaesthetic was administered in a hospital.

ZA
The patient identity information on the claim (month or year of birth,
sex or surname) does not correspond to information on the Health Services Card.
Please check the Health Services Card, make the claim corrections and resubmit.

ZC
The submitted claim contains invalid data other than patient identification
data, e.g. September 31, the submitted fee at zero dollars, the 13 month,
a lower case surname, a partially blank field as HSN, units or birth date, etc.

ZD
The dates of service or month of birth are invalid.  The date of service may
be greater than the date of computer processing or there are two months of
service on 50 records with the same claim number.

ZF
The doctor is not eligible to submit for
services on the indicated dates of service.

ZG

Two premium eligible services on same claim with different locations of service.
See Page A.13 - A.15 of the Payment Schedule

ZH
Only Hospital visits (25 to 28), 31B, 32B, 31C or 32C may be billed in the
hospital visit area or on a hospital care record (57).  Please resubmit other
services on a non-hospital visit/procedure record (50).  The number of units
or number of days billed can never exceed 99.  On a computer submission,
the 50 record must precede all 57 records with the same claim number.

ZL
The submitted referring doctor number is invalid or an invalid referring
doctor number has been used for a non-cancer diagnosis.  Please check the
referring doctor name and number.

ZM
The claim contains an invalid diagnostic code according to the
International Classification of Diseases - 9th Revision.
Please check the diagnosis, diagnostic code and table of invalid codes.

ZN
Saskatchewan Health has received multiple claims with the same clinic, doctor,
claim and Health Services Number.  One of the claims is being processed, all
other claims with the same claim number are being returned.

ZP
An invalid mode of payment has been used on the claim.

ZR
The indicated location of service, service code or time is invalid for a
premium payment on this date.   (See 'OUT OF HOURS PREMIUMS" section in
Part A of the Payment Schedule) OR location of service must be 9 for an
emergency room physician.

ZT
Please refer to the comment record(s) being returned by MSP for a more
detailed explanation.

ZW
The direct input claim cannot be processed.
Please resubmit on a regular claim form.

ZY
The direct input claim cannot be processed.  Please resubmit with comments
or an explanation of the service provided.  If an operative report or a
detailed explanation is required, it should be submitted and attached to
a regular claim form.

